takeaways from your trip to Beijing and
Shenzhen.
>> Uh hi Ivon, let's recall what we
discussed about one month ago in your
show.
>> Uh liquidity was in driver's seat. We
have seen some kind of water buffalo
forming. Um so that liquidity net
narrative was dominating basically every
single speaker on your show in the last
month or so. But we have also warned
about a month ago there is a
disconnection between fundamentals and
this liquidity narrative. Uh August
prints are very soft high frequency data
like housing exports fiscal impulse are
all fading. So back to fundamentals I
would argue um what happened in the
market is more like a reality check.
It's not a broad reflection yet and we
have seen that um modest policy moves as
your colleague John in Beijing mentioned
some marginal easing in monetary and
fiscal policy but these are more
cyclical tools which can cushion to have
a new cycle you need a structural moves
to anchor reflation and the rebalance
that's not these marginal easing tools
that's probably uh the upcoming fourth
plenum and the 15th fiveyear plan
outlines That's the key swing factor we
are monitoring.
>> What's the likelihood though that that
we get anything major from that? I mean,
a lot of people have been saying also
the rally that we've seen in Chinese
equities has sort of remove some of that
need as well for big stimulus measures.
>> Well, I would argue they need to reflate
the economy with much stronger
consumption centric policies. Um, for
example, uh, if they use the five-year
plan to change the government incentives
to recalibrate the fiscal policy to put
all these resources into a stronger
social safety net that could unlock
consumption in a more sustainable way.
So that's the five-year plan to be
announced by the force planning. That's
the key swing factor. Before that we
will keep hearing incremental modest
cushion measures be this fertility
support or subsidy on uh services
consumption or some accelerated pace on
that the infrastructure spending but
these are more like providing a cushion.
there was this sort of meeting that the
CSRC Wuing had with with industry
experts and the like recently and it
what do you think has changed in terms
of how regulators looking at this rally
because you know up until now it seemed
like they were focused more on stability
especially amid the face of tariffs and
the like and now you're seeing even like
policy makers nudging towards a you know
a stronger MMB to help with inflows in
some ways to the equity market as well
has the role of the equity market
changed from a policymakers point of
view
>> well I think policy makers probably see
uh the equity market as a very very
excitable dog on a very long leash. So
it dot you know on random directions but
eventually the policy god rear which is
the leash can bring it back. Um so what
happened over the last two months the
debate over uh liquiditydriven market
the so-called deposit migration cees
every speaker on your show mentioned I
would taper expectations because the
size of this excess saving in the last
few years is probably smaller than most
people imagined only R&B six to 7
trillion excess time deposit over last
few years
>> and more importantly the pace of
migration outflowing into equity is much
slower than the market imagined.
>> Yeah.
>> July, August probably only 300 billion
yen migration at best. So it's quite
slow. Why? Because many market entrance
in 2021. They are still underwater. That
precautionary saving is still elevated.
So I think back to fundamentals, you
need a broader reflation that pulls
through to wages to employment that can
make this rally much more sustainable.
And for policy makers, the signal has
been providing guard rails not breaks.
So they probably act earlier, more
targeted than previous boom bust
episodes. So now they are using some
promarket reforms plus some window
guidance to provide guard. I think
that's not breaks and the market as you
mentioned kind of did the selfcorrection
by itself. So heavy-handed intervention
is not necessary.
>> It it's interesting as well. I mean yes
maybe it's it's it's more led by smart
money less by sort of retail money.
That's sort of the theme that's come
out. But but also the questions around
what is the next leg of the rally and
the earnings results we've seen don't
really justify any big move higher from
here. When you also combine it against
stories like was saying about Reuters
reporting that BYD has cut their sales
target for for for EV sales. I mean
that's not a great signal either about
the health of the economy. So I mean how
much worse do you think the economy will
perform going into the end of the year?
>> Well, we have a soft second half
forecast and more importantly uh
deflation is going to be persistent. So
China started this anti-evolution
campaign and we did a deep dive. um
solar sector is probably exhibit A for
anti- evvolution. There seems to be a
plan starting with upstream like poly
silicon uh with a consolidation plan
financed by some industry funds to
absorb inventory to smooth the supply
curve. But solar is probably the um most
easier one. If you look at the
downstream cars, e-commerce, express
delivery, these are much tougher because
the fragmentation of market share
because policy makers has this less
policy levers on these sectors. So it's
not going to be easy. It's a more like a
messy path, maybe two steps forward, one
step back, that kind of um path rather
than a straight line for reflation. Our
base case is Chinese growth will still
be with subdued nominal growth deflation
throughout maybe the end of next year.
But if you talk about micro story
because Ivonne you mentioned our trip in
Beijing and Shenzhen there's some
divergence in Shenzhen it's all positive
micro story
>> um things like the green tech EVs and
the transitions like power storage power
grids and also the smart manufacturing
like using AI and industrial robotics
and software that make them more
efficient improving uh cost benefits and
the last but not least this new
so-called new productive forces
humanoids self-driving cars and AI
adoption you also mentioned the deepseek
new model so I think there is a lot of
micro positivities it's just these are
not enough to have a full por through to
wages and employment for reflation not
yet
>> you mentioned that fiscal expansion is
limited why do you think there's there's
not that much room and how bad does it
have to look for the economy in the
fourth quarter to actually spark some
sort of fiscal expansion you Well, the
reason is simple. With the first half
GDP tracking at 5.3%.
For Beijing, the bar for um much bigger
deficit expansion or much more
aggressive rate cuts is quite high. It
will be data dependent. And if the third
and fourth quarter data softened more
than they expected, it's possible they
will do some monitoring and fiscal year
in Q4. But again these are more
incremental targeted using like cyclical
tools providing a cushion rather than
using a structural reform to anchor
rebalance. That's the five-year plan.
the fourth plan before that I think any
additional fiscal year will be quite
modest.